CD release notes April 5 (#1254)
harness/developer-hub: release-notes/continuous-delivery.md

  
  If you set the [failure strategy](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/pipelines/define-a-failure-strategy-on-stages-and-steps/) on these Tanzu Application Services (TAS) steps, you can now select **Retry** for **Timeout Failures**.

  <docimage path={require('./static/e467e7de04d6d257e1871fad7181b65a39b7712b68826b84b7c79d849b411f04.png')} width="60%" height="60%" title="Click to view full size image" />

- View the freeze windows that impact a pipeline from the Pipeline Executions page. (CDS-53781)
  
  You can now select **Associated Freeze Window Details** from the more options setting (⋮) on the Pipeline Executions page. Selecting this option will take you to the related freeze windows that apply to the pipeline execution.
- Helm Chart Version fetch is added to Manifest Details form. (CDS-53220)
  
  You can now select the Helm Chart name in the **Manifest Details** form of the service and get the list of chart versions.
  
  ![picture 72](static/f01d849d1372a8d1c67dcd7532d2a3d58562fb72453328008eb617ae5df0b127.png)

  This only works for HTTP Helm or Git based Helm Charts.

> - Harness recommends that you use the `kubelogin` auth plugin to authenticate the Google Kubernetes Engine cluster with Kubernetes version 1.22 or later. (CDS-52514)

Reviewer: This was added in the previous release

  
  The open source community requires that all provider-specific codes that currently exist in the OSS codebase must be removed starting from version 1.26. You can now use client-go credential plugins to authenticate Kubernetes cluster logins. Auth Provider is deprecated for Kubernetes version 1.22 or later, and completely unsupported for versions 1.26 or later. For Harness Azure cloud providers connecting to AKS with Kubernetes version 1.22 or later, we recommend using the `kubelogin` auth plugin for authentication.

  The Harness Google Cloud cloud provider (connecting to GKE) supports two authentication types. For each authentication type, the following dependencies must be installed on your Harness delegate. It they are missing, Harness will follow the old auth provider format.

  * `SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_SECRET`: Add `kubelogin` binary.
  * `SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_CERT`: Requires additional dependency on Azure CLI. Therefore, we use the old auth provider to authenticate AKS cloud provider. 
- You can now trigger a pipeline when there are changes to an artifact in Bamboo. (CDS-51742)
  

>   [On new artifact](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/triggers/trigger-on-a-new-artifact/) triggers are simple way to automate deployments for new builds. On new artifact triggers simply listen to a Bamboo registry where one or more of the artifacts in your pipeline are hosted. Every time a new image is pushed to your Bamboo account, it triggers a CD pipeline that deploys it automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [On new artifact](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/triggers/trigger-on-a-new-artifact/) triggers are a simple way to automate deployments for new builds. On new artifact triggers simply listen to a Bamboo registry where one or more artifacts in your pipeline are hosted. Every time a new image is pushed to your Bamboo account, it triggers a CD pipeline that deploys it automatically.
```

  
  </details>
  
  Itil roles are not mandatory for using these steps. When using the normal flow for custom tables, you should have sufficient permissions on the custom table, such as basic CRUD permissions, permissions to update desired fields, etc.
  
  When using template flow, your user role is required along with cross scope privileges to the custom table. 
  
  The store app is only certified to be used with Incident, Problem, Change Request, and Change Task tables by the ServiceNow certification team.
  
  The custom table being used should allow access to this table via web services.
- Harness will remove comments when evaluating commented lines in manifests to avoid rendering failures. (CDS-57721, ZD-41676)
  
  This functionality is behind a feature flag, `CDS_REMOVE_COMMENTS_FROM_VALUES_YAML`.
  
  Expressions in comments were causing issues for some customers as Harness was trying to evaluate the expressions and this was causing failures.
  
  Harness will remove comments from values.yaml files to prevent expressions in comments from being evaluated and causing failures.

### Fixed issues

> - RBAC enforced for [environment groups](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/onboard-cd/cd-concepts/services-and-environments-overview/) based on environment group identifiers. (CDS-45758)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- RBAC was enforced for [environment groups](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/onboard-cd/cd-concepts/services-and-environments-overview/) based on environment group identifiers. (CDS-45758)
```

>   Users can view only those environment groups to which they have View access. Previously, if a user had access to view only certain environment groups, they would see an error. Now they should be able to see all the accessible environment groups.

Reviewer: It is unclear if users get an error message when they try to access certain env groups to which they have view access.

>   Users can view only those environment groups to which they have View access. Previously, if a user had access to view only certain environment groups, they would see an error. Now they should be able to see all the accessible environment groups.

Reviewer: Previously, you would see an error when trying to view environment groups if you had access to view only certain environment groups. Now, you can view those environment groups to which you have View access.

>   Users can view only those environment groups to which they have View access. Previously, if a user had access to view only certain environment groups, they would see an error. Now they should be able to see all the accessible environment groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Previously, you would see an error when trying to view environment groups if you had access to view only certain environment groups. Now, you can view those environment groups to which you have View access.
```

  
  ![picture 70](static/1b5a85ed162b70c2c13e84e1b2b5e19f1a6f1e5f4367168cd920100afde0a93a.png)  

  Now the Jenkins step will also export the `GIT_SHA` expression.
- The GitOps Fetch Linked Apps step was returning a null value. (CDS-58150)
  
  The GitOps Fetch Linked Apps step output was not set correctly, leading to a null value for the step. This has been fixed and the step now returns the linked apps correctly.
- The [Container step](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/cd-execution/cd-general-steps/container-step/) was not using the JEXL expression [Conditional Execution](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/pipelines/w_pipeline-steps-reference/step-skip-condition-settings/) logic correctly. (CDS-58081)

  The JEXL condition was not being evaluated and when the expression evaluated to `false` the step would still execute. This is now fixed and the JEXL expression is used correctly.
- The [Deployment Template](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/onboard-cd/cd-quickstarts/custom-deployment-tutorial/)'s **Referenced By** setting was throwing an error. (CDS-58073)
  

>   The **Referenced By** setting shows the pipelines that are using the template. The search filters in the template have been fixed and error is gone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The search filters in the template is fixed now. The **Referenced By** setting now shows the pipelines that are using the template. 
```

- The GitOps Clusters step was missing null checks. (CDS-58049)
  

>   The Gitops Clusters step is added automatically during pipeline runtime when the stage **GitOps** option is selected. For example, in [PR pipeline](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/cd-gitops/harness-git-ops-application-set-tutorial).

Reviewer: In PR pipeline? This sentence looks incomplete. Are you saying that in this PR pipeline, the GitOps Clusters step is added automatically during runtime?

  
  <docimage path={require('./static/73cdc440ba09f067a25838780163b73f1afb34dc16e3fb4c625b6a84d0c295cf.png')} width="60%" height="60%" title="Click to view full size image" />

>   DeployToAll is a Boolean field in the step that can have true, false, or null values. The DeployToAll value not set correctly when re-running pipelines because null checks were not present in all of the places where DeployToAll was referred to. This is now fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  DeployToAll is a Boolean field in the step that can have true, false, or null values. The DeployToAll value was not set correctly when re-running pipelines because null checks were not present in all places where DeployToAll was referred to. This is now fixed.
```

- The Services dashboard was displaying deleted instances for project-level agents. (CDS-58041)
  
  The instance deletion did not happen due to an incorrect condition. This condition now picks up the instances for deletion.
- Users were unable to delete a [V1 environments](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/onboard-cd/upgrading/upgrade-cd-v2). (CDS-57943, ZD-41828)
  
  User can now delete V2 and V1 environments.

> - Missing task type support resulted in com.esotericsoftware.kryo.KryoException: Encountered unregistered class ID: 873575 error. (CDS-57912)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Missing task type support resulted in a `com.esotericsoftware.kryo.KryoException: Encountered unregistered class ID: 873575` error. (CDS-57912)
```

> - Missing task type support resulted in com.esotericsoftware.kryo.KryoException: Encountered unregistered class ID: 873575 error. (CDS-57912)

Reviewer: Missing task type support resulted in a `com.esotericsoftware.kryo.KryoException: Encountered unregistered class ID: 873575` error. (CDS-57912)

  Harness has added the unsupported task type.
- Execution logs were not available once a step timed out. (CDS-56745)
  
  This issue was introduced at implementation and has been fixed.

> - Nexus 3 artifact **Tag** and **Repository** values were not updated when switching the repo type. (CDS-56640)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Nexus 3 artifact **Tag** and **Repository** values were not updated when switching the repository type. (CDS-56640)
```

>   When switching repository format from Raw to Docker or any other supported formats, the **Tag** and **Repository** input fields were not cleared. This is fixed and the fields are cleared.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When switching the repository format from Raw to Docker or any other supported formats, the **Tag** and **Repository** input fields were not cleared. This is fixed and the fields are cleared.
```

> - Schema validation for step group templates not working.	(CDS-56492)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Schema validation for step group templates was not working.	(CDS-56492)
```

  
  Validation is now working. The entityType in template schema needed to be passed.

> - Docker artifact label expressions were not resolved in SSH/WinRm Command step scripts. (CDS-54744)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Docker artifact label expressions were not resolved in SSH or WinRm Command step scripts. (CDS-54744)
```

  
  You can now copy custom artifact output labels which have a '.' or a '-' in the output label and use that in an expression without encountering any errors during expression evaluation.

> - Editing SSH credentials in the Infrastructure Definition was failing. (CDS-54519)

Reviewer: General comment:
Are we using title case for UI terms such as Infrastructure Definition? It is inconsistently used through the RN.

  
  This is fixed. Editing the SSH Credentials is now working as expected.
- Infrastructure runtime input was not visible in template inputs section. (CDS-54511)
  
  Support has been added to make the resolved pipeline YAML available to template inputs so that dependent fields can be rendered.
- Pipeline name edits were lost when a template input was changed in a pipeline template. (CDS-54332)
  
  Pipeline template inputs such as pipeline name, if changed, are no longer getting reset when changing template inputs.

> - Data not cleared in ACR artifact source template. (CDS-54212)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Data was not cleared in ACR artifact source template. (CDS-54212)
```

  
  In the ACR artifact source template, the form details were not getting cleared when the connector was changed. This issue has been fixed now.
- Users were unable to create or edit the runtime input default values when configuring services, environments, templates, and pipelines. (CDS-53919, ZD-39998, ZD-40031, ZD-41197, ZD-41889)

  This issue is fixed. Harness now supports adding and editing runtime input default values when configuring services, environments, templates, and pipelines.
- Nexus connectors not filtered in artifact source for versions 2 and 3. (CDS-53879)
  

>   When you create a Nexus connector, you specify version 2.x or 3.x.  Later, when selecting a Nexus 3 connector in the Nexus artifact source, Harness was showing both version 2 and 3 connectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When selecting a Nexus 3 connector in the Nexus artifact source, Harness was showing both version 2 and 3 connectors even if you specified the version when creating the connector.
```

  This is fixed and the connectors are now filtered by version.
- Unclear error message in Triggers webhook registration. (CDS-53600)
  
  Harness improved the error handling for webhook registration failures. Users will now receive guidance. For example:

  ![picture 75](static/e5e13558c63d546b0e9a597695b9320efe86c6306d8a08fdb052abb7e7e07b7d.png)
- Incorrect error message when environment is set as an expression but no expression is provided. (CDS-53491)
  We have added schema validation for empty identifiers for envGroupRef, environmentRef, and infrastructure identifiers. Now the correct error messages will appear.

> - Implemented code changes to ensure correct behavior and fix the following issues:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Implemented code changes to ensure correct behavior and fixed the following issues:
```

>   - RepoName will now be rendered in Manifest Details section while adding manifest itself irrespective of whether connector is expression or runtime. (CDS-53309, ZD-39859)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - RepoName will now be rendered in Manifest Details section while adding manifest itself irrespective of whether connector is an expression or a runtime input. (CDS-53309, ZD-39859)
```

>   - Configuring Bitbucket Connector as expression/runtime input should be an option to provide the repo name (CDS-51247, ZD-38985)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Configuring Bitbucket connector as an expression or runtime input should be an option to provide the repository name. (CDS-51247, ZD-38985)
```

> - Trigger YAML **Edit** button was taking users back to the visual editor. (CDS-50426)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The trigger YAML **Edit** button was taking users back to the visual editor. (CDS-50426)
```
